Let's do something a little more interesting, so in this video, we are going to take a look at the
data structures that are built into Julia.
Again, I'm going to do some parallels with Python so that you find it easier to understand.
But even if you haven't worked with Python before, that's perfectly fine.
This should make sense regardless.
So let's go ahead and clear this first.
So let's first create a basic collection.
So this is going to be a list or what Julia calls an array.
OK, so we have this collection over here.
You can see that this is a four element array and the type of each element within that array is 64 bit
integer.
So it's an array of insectivores.
You will notice that Julia has strict typing for its arrays.
You can always have different types within the array, but the type of the array itself is going to
be defined according to certain rules, which will take a look at right now.
So if you define the same list and change five to five point, or it's going to convert this into a
flawed 64.
So now all of the elements within the list that you provided are converted or promoted to floor 64.
The reason for that is if you have lists or arrays which hold elements of the same type, it speeds
up the performance by a lot.
So Julia, by default, converts everything into Florida 64 if you have just 164 in your collection
or your array or list.
OK, so even though we had integers over here, they have been converted into floats and float 64 is
the default.
This is going to create some problems when we get into machine learning, but we'll cover this when
we get there.
OK, just keep this in mind for what, 64 is the default.
You can also have completely different types so you can have fractions.
So you will see that because everything is being promoted to offload.
This fraction is also promoted to a float and returns to one point six six six seven.
OK, what if you try to use something that cannot be converted into a different type so you have integers
and a string, neither of them can be promoted to the other.
So what happens is Julia creates a list and the type of all the elements is now any so any like at the
top of the hierarchy of Juliar types.
So you have any and then you have numbers and you have strings and characters or any essentially means
you can have any type.
This is going to be a problem if you use it in actual computation, because this is going to really
slow down your code if you use any.
So it's much better to actually define what kind of data you're going to hold in a list and then work
with that specific data.
Genius data in a list aren't really all that useful anyway.
OK.
So let's go ahead and do some operations on these lists, so will define our list as one, two, four,
five.
So it's 1764 array four elements.
Obviously we can append something to this collection by using the Append Beldin function.
You will notice that it ends with a bang.
So this exclamation mark at the end essentially is Julias convention of defining functions which modify
its arguments.
So you are passing it the collection, which is a list or an array.
I'm going to use both of these interchangeably.
You are passing it this array and this is going to be modified by the append functions or by convention.
This append function has exclamation mark at the end.
OK, there is nothing special about the exclamation mark from a syntax perspective.
It's just a convention.
So we are going to append 60 to this collection once we do that.
You can see that collection now has the 60 at the end.
Let's reset this and try to access the first element.
So if you come from Python or C or Java, you probably would be doing collection WSDL.
And this is extremely important that Julia does not have zero based indices.
So Collections zero is invalid.
And Julia Julia uses one based index.
So the first element is in the index number one.
Right.
There are reasons for this.
Don't get upset about this.
It's just how Julia does things.
If you used Matlab, that uses the same syntax.
OK, so there are reasons for doing this.
Let's not go into that.
So we have this.
You can always do slicing so you can go from one to five.
This again is different from Python.
One, two, five means start from the first element, go all the way up to the fifth element and both
of them are included.
So collection one two five is 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50.
OK, many languages stopped just before this.
So you have to make sure that you get comfortable with this.
When you're using Julia.
You can also start from a location and go all the way up to the end using the keyword.
So if you say five to end, it starts from the fifth element.
And because this is one based index, we actually start from the fifth element and we go all the way
up to the end.
OK, you can omit both of these.
So you have this.
And essentially this whole thing creates a copy of the array that you have.
If you do collection colon for if you're coming from Python, you might be thinking that this is going
to start from the start and it's going to go up to the fourth element.
But that is not the case over here, if you recall.
In BASIX, we saw that you have what are called symbols, so we over here calling for essentially is
just an integer four.
So if you put colon four over here, this means just four.
So if you do collection, calling for this gives you the single element at index four.
So this is kind of confusing for people coming to Julia from another language.
So if you want to get all the elements from the start all the way up to the fourth element, you have
to do one goal in four.
So just getting to this index, make sure that you understand it, OK?
Also, you cannot have negative indices.
If you want to do that, you can do and minus one.
And that will give you the same thing.
It depends on who you ask.
Some people say this is better.
And obviously by then people say that this is better.
You get used to it really quickly.
It's not all that troublesome.
You can obviously go ahead and change the individual elements.
So you can say collection one is equal to ninety nine and that is going to change the stuff.
If you want to look at the values of different things, you can use the macro.
So this is called a macro.
If you do actual collection, it's going to say collection is equal to this whole thing and then it's
going to output the actual value as well.
Typically when you're trying to debug stuff, you say show collection and then you add a semicolon at
the end.
What that means is it's going to do the actual showing so you'll get this line out, but it is not going
to return the value of the collection itself.
So you will not get this output.
OK, so if you say show collection, semicolon, you get just that value.
This is going to make more sense when you output multiple values, which will do in a little while.
OK, let's create a copy of the collection.
Using copy of collection is equal to collection.
If you do that, you get a copy of collection.
So this is a copy.
If you change the first value of copy of collection to one hundred.
So this ninety nine is going to change.
Two hundred.
OK, but the problem is that if you try to look at collection now, the value of the first element of
collection has also changed.
The reason for that is this does not create a copy.
It just creates a new variable that is pointing to the same list.
So in the realm you have this list sitting somewhere, collection is pointing to it and copies of collection
is also pointing to the same list.
So if you change this ninety nine, both collection and copy of collection are going to change.
What we actually want to do is we want to create a copy of this whole list.
And in order to do that, you have to use the built in function called copy.
So let's create a second copy and we're going to use the copy function now.
And if you do that and change the first element of second copy, two nine nine nine nine and output
all of these three using the macro, you will see that second copy has changed.
Collection remains the same.
And so this copy of collection because second copy is now completely decoupled from our original collection
of that made sense.
There is also an issue of deep copy, but we leave that for more advanced videos when we get to those.
And when we need that, we'll see what deep copies.
So those are the basic operations that you can do with arrays or lists or data that is very similar
to lists on race, but which is immutable is called tuples.
So you can create tuples using parentheses around brackets.
So you say collection is equal to one to four and you can have any data type in that.
So you can have Julia by then see each other and you do one based indexing just as before, and you
can try and modify it.
But because it's immutable, it's going to give you an error.
So it's a method error, no method matching set index, so on and so forth.
What this means is you cannot set index, which means you cannot modify the value at this index, and
that is because tables are immutable.
If you look at languages, it remains the same.
You can also have name tuples, which is kind of like a merger between arrays and dictionaries.
The latest versions of Python are also adding support for this.
But if you haven't seen this before, it has a very simple syntax.
You can say Attwood's is equal to language, is equal to Julia Idiz, equal to Pluto and expiries.
You can do perseverence.
So if you do that, you can access elements of this tuple using numeric indices.
Solitudes one is Julia.
That is the first element.
And you can also do tools, dot language so you can use the dot operator to access particular values.
So this is kind of like a merger between lists and dictionaries and enumerations.
So they're not very often used.
But when they are, you should be aware of the syntax.
OK, so the syntax is fairly straightforward.
You have parenthesis instead of square records and you can do named elements.
So language is equal to Julia and so on and so forth.
OK, so those were the two basic data structures.
The third one is dictionaries that will take a look at in the next video.